hey it's your friend mel and welcome to the mel robbins podcast i have a question for you when was the last time you did something that you thought there's no way i can do that something that kinda scared you you know and i'm not just talking a little nervous scared i'm talking heart racing palms sweating why did i agree to do this thing kinda scared something that you felt completely unqualified for unprepared to handle but you did it
anyway well recently i did something like that what did i do i went on my first ever live tour and at first i thought okay no big deal what what is the big deal with going on tour i mean i'm just gonna get up on stage give a speech inspire everybody that shows up then i'm gonna head home this is easy oh my god i was so wrong because here's the thing if you came to see the show you probably thought oh well mel's just gonna talk at me that's not what i did at all when i went on tour it was a full blown production 30 crew members lighting stacks i didn't know what those were graphics packages graphics what is a graph a smoke machine there was comedy acting props cues this was not a talk this was theater here's the thing i've never done theater i was
so nervous i had stress diarrhea for 3 days straight before the first show no i'm serious my green room bathroom it smelled like a porta potty at a construction site so why am i telling you this because let them the tour was the most uncomfortable most vulnerable most i can't do this thing why did i agree to do this thing that i have ever done but it taught me 6 life changing lessons that i am going to unpack and share with you today and yep i'm gonna take you behind the scenes at the tour i'm gonna tell you stories about what happened but i'm gonna unpack these lessons to help you do the things that you don't think you're ready for but you really wanna do it's only in the doing them that you learn that you are ready to do it and it sort of reminds me of roller coasters
now i'm not the kind of person that likes roller coasters but every once in a while i get on 1 and you know that moment when you get into a roller coaster and you're like click in and then you think oh my god why did i agree to do this but now the bar's down and it's too late and it's leaving the station and you are on the ride that's exactly what it felt for me why did i agree to do this and now that i'm in it i want out see too often you think about whether or not you even wanna get on the ride my mission today with our conversation is to convince you to trust yourself enough in life to put your rear end in that seat
so let's go hey it's your friend mel and welcome to the mel robbins podcast i am so excited that you're here i'm fired up for the conversation today i have so many stories to tell you so you better buckle up and pull that seat belt tight because we are gonna go on a wild ride today and i wanna start by saying it is always an honor to be able to spend time together with you i can't wait to tell you the stories that i'm gonna share and the 6 lessons i wanna unpack for you if you're new to the podcast i also wanted to take a moment and personally welcome you to the mel robbins podcast family i am
so glad that you're here with me and because you made the time to listen to this particular episode today here's what i know about you you're not only the kind of person who values your time but you made the time to listen to this so you gotta be somebody who wants more out of your life you're looking for the lessons that are gonna help you just squeeze more out take more risks today that's exactly what's gonna happen and if you're here listening because someone in your life shared this conversation with you that is so cool because they believe in your ability to do things that you're afraid of they believe in your ability to do big things big things that maybe you've never done before and they know that the conversation today is gonna give you the kick in the rear end and the encouragement that you need and i think it's
so cool you have people in your life like that see this past month i did something that i have never done before i've been thinking about it maybe there's something like that in your life there's something that you've been thinking about doing but you think oh i could never do that now's not the time i don't know if i'm qualified it might be uncomfortable i don't know how things would go and so you keep talking yourself out of it well that was me i would see all these other people that hosted podcasts and written books going on these live tours and i thought maybe someday i'll go on a tour well it happened last month i went on my first ever live tour let them the tour and if you were there huge shout out it was an absolute blast i love seeing everybody in boston and new york and toronto and chicago and london holy cow and yes we are gonna take the tour out in 2026
so i can't wait to hear where you want us to come next and i'm so excited to take you behind the scenes and tell you the crazy stories and put you right in those moments where the stress and the nerves and the fear was paralyzing but i have to say this this first leg of let them the tour is 1 of the highlights of my entire life i will literally be on my deathbed and look back at this as 1 of the greatest things i've ever experienced and it's not just because i got to experience it with my daughters but it's because of how it stretched me it's because of the things that went wrong it's because i put myself in a situation that was
so outside my comfort zone and anything that i had ever done and whenever you do that you not only surprise yourself but life surprises you back and this tour was exactly that and i cannot wait to get back out on tour in 2026 and see you and come to your city and have you experience this too so i just wanted to say that because i'm gonna harp on the bad stuff and how scary it was and all that stuff but this truly was magical and that's a big takeaway and it's why i wanna push you because when you do put yourself in a situation that forces you to stretch and grow going to college breaking up starting a new job moving to a new city anytime you've done that you become a better version of yourself and that's my mission with our conversation today because you have something right
now that you know you wanna try that is completely out of your comfort zone period it's true like stop and think about it there's somewhere in your life where you're playing small or there's some aspect that you're just sticking to what's familiar oh i'll do that in a couple years oh i like watching other people do this online maybe someday i'll do what i see other people doing online but there's a part of you that really wants to do it you know for some reason though you just can't get yourself to do it i believe the best things in life come from doing the things you don't believe that you can do you know the things that the little voice in the back of your head is constantly talking you out of whether you wanna start a youtube channel but no people might judge you everybody else has a youtube channel what am i gonna say what if it doesn't work or maybe you wanna take a dance class or you think you're a terrible dancer you know funny enough i was in a new yoga studio this weekend where i live in vermont and they're offering these hip hop and shuffle dance classes and the first thing i thought is oh my gosh i'd really love to do that but then you wanna know the second thing i thought oh i'm a terrible dancer i couldn't go to a class to learn to dance there are
so many things in this category maybe you wanna start volunteering but you don't know how to get started you wanna write a book but you think everybody else has already said what you wanna say you wanna go on a date but oh what if they say no you wanna start your own business but oh what if i fail all these things that you wanna do that you're afraid of that you're nervous these are the biggest opportunities for growth and fun and stretching yourself and learning more about yourself and so today i'm going to teach you exactly how you can conquer these things in your life step by step because i'm gonna share with you these 6 mindset shifts and lessons that helped me go from i i can't do this why did i sign up to do this to going oh my gosh i'm doing this there's a huge difference between the mel robbins that was on this planet before the let them tour and the person that is your friend mel robbins post tour and it's because of these 6 things that i learned doing something that i didn't think that i can do if you can just take everything i'm about to pour into you the funny stories the lessons that i learned the crazy twists and turns that i'm about to bring you backstage and behind the scenes if you can take all this to heart it will help you take the leap and i promise you you are gonna surprise yourself with what you are truly capable of i mean just like that doll can stretch beyond your wildest dreams you can stretch into a new version of you
now you may be thinking mel why would you be nervous about going on a tour woman you were a motivational speaker for 10 years you were on some of the biggest stages around the world you gave speeches for a lot you have this podcast you're you're talking to a camera and into a microphone right now mel you record all the time i don't really believe you going on a tour was something you were afraid of i mean isn't that kind of the same thing i thought it was but
let me tell you something going on tour is a completely different animal than recording a podcast or even giving a speech like think about speeches like when i was hired to give a speech and i'm still hired to give speeches for some of the biggest brands around the world it's somebody else's event you basically show up and they hand you an hour and i hand them my presentation and then they give me a clicker and then i go on the stage and i do my thing and then i leave and that's it when you go on tour you're responsible for everything you're creating your own event from the very beginning like absolutely everything i had no idea what i was getting myself into and that brings me to the very first lesson lesson number 1 what if you did it bigger i want you to really consider this what if you approached the things that you wanted to do in your life or or the things that you're already doing and you did it bigger and i wanna explain what i mean
so let me tell you a story so when i first decided okay we're gonna go on tour i really wanna get out into the world i wanna see you in real life i wanna hug you i wanna have fun together we hired a tour production company because that's what you do right and i thought okay i'm i'm really good at this in fact i might have said something very arrogant in the first meeting oh guys this is gonna be a breeze like i i give speeches for a living i know what we're doing here i got we got a great team we do production for a living this is gonna be great and i just kind of envisioned okay we would get a bunch of theaters there would be a couple thousand people out there and i'd walk out and i'd give a speech but as we started planning it with this world class production team and here's the thing i didn't hire a team that does like small speeches oh no no no no no i didn't even realize it but i did it bigger from the start we hired a team that does like stadium tours for famous musicians i mean we brought in the big guns
so i'm sitting in this meeting right and i'm thinking okay i know how to do this i know i i've been on other people's tours where they've interviewed me on stage i've been on stages and as we're planning it marcus i'm gonna blame marcus because there's always somebody in your life that makes you go bigger today your friend mel robbins is gonna make you go bigger but damn it it was marcus who in the meeting said look you know mel i can't do the australian accent he actually has an australian accent which would make it sound a lot better but he was literally like look i can't i can't do it it's embarrassing
so he goes look you're you're a fantastic speaker i've been watching your speeches on youtube you could absolutely just roll onto that stage mel and you could light the place on fire and you could give an incredible speech and people would leave and go oh that was really great and you know i feel really inspired or you could bring the stories of your life and the lessons that you want to share to life and do theater and leave people gobsmacked
and when he said that you know what i said let's do that let's do that because doesn't it sound fun to go bigger and you and i are just sitting around aren't we waiting for permission from someone else to say hey you should do that bigger hey you should swing for the fences hey i think you could stretch a little bit more and i got lucky because marcus dared me to do it bigger and that's the first lesson it's an invitation from me to you i dare you to do it bigger
now here's the problem in my defense i had no idea what i was agreeing to seriously when i said yes let's gobsmack people yes let's bring this to yes let's do theater let's have sets let's do all the things and just have people be completely blown away because they weren't expecting this i didn't really understand what i was saying yes to and that's the beauty of this lesson what if you did it bigger because you don't know what you're saying yes to you don't because you've never done it bigger and
so i literally didn't even understand you guys because i just kept saying as as we're marching toward the opening night right and i keep getting requests like okay we need all the graphics we need the visuals we need the the videos done we need this we need that and i was so chill because i didn't understand that we were doing it bigger i literally thought oh no no no problem the show is thursday night we can send them this stuff on tuesday we can roll in there wednesday afternoon we can do a quick rehearsal i got my clicker in the powerpoint oh my god because i didn't know what i had signed up for when i showed up for rehearsal in boston at the wang theatre
so we're talking wednesday afternoon the reality of doing it bigger hit me and the feeling that you have when you realize i have bit off more than i can chew there were 30 crew members running around there were hundreds of these huge black cases of equipment that i've only seen at like a taylor swift or you know a a kendrick lamar concert they were rolling this stuff around oh my gosh that that they were assembling this huge led screen that took up the entire stage there were lighting racks there were haze machines they were building a platform for a bed that i was using there were sets i mean all they were marking the stage
so that they had the camera shots because we had 3 cinematic cameras that filmed the whole thing and there was a director that was calling and all of a sudden occurred to me oh my god this isn't a speech i actually have to know the show because i've gotta be at a certain spot on the stage at a certain time and they're marking it and i don't even know my lines for a show about my own life and that's when it hit me we have 1 day until we have to do this show it is 03:00 in the afternoon on a wednesday they're building the sets we haven't even rehearsed this thing hell we're still writing the show the crew is starting to get really nervous because they're
now realizing mel robbins has been telling us for a month that she's a pro at this and she doesn't even know her own show so it was stress diarrhea for 3 days straight that's how panic stricken i was and we did our rehearsal on wednesday it was terrible everybody was super nervous we woke up the next day on thursday so this is gonna be opening night opening night and the first night i gotta say we went on it went over a half an hour over schedule the slides got stuck at 1 point i accidentally disconnected myself from my microphone we finished the show and you wanna know my first thought after going bigger i thought i hate this i woke up friday morning i called my husband chris i was in a complete state of panic and i said i can't do this like i can't do the show i'm not built for acting i don't know why i didn't just do a speech i don't know why i dragged our daughters into this because they don't wanna be here either the show last night like the audience loved it i didn't like it like i don't wanna do this again and i gotta give props to chris because he said to me mel get your ass off this phone and get back to that theater and you get back on that stage and you go rehearse and make it better and look i wanna be clear about something the show wasn't bad i'm talking about my experience of what it felt like to stretch myself and do something new we had half of the team from 1 4 3 studios that's my company they produce the podcast half our team was there after the show everybody came back and were like oh my god that was unbelievable you're hilarious the show's amazing and i'm like it was terrible it was too long it was they were like don't cut anything and i'm like we couldn't hear you laughing are you sure it was funny oh my god it was hysterical we didn't know you were that i couldn't believe you were doing skits and
so your experience of what it's gonna feel like when you do something big or you stretch yourself is not gonna match what other people experience when they watch you doing it the thing that's incredible about going bigger is that once you commit you're in it once the stretching starts oh man is it painful you are gonna be so mad that you said yes to these things and here's the thing though by saturday night i gotta tell you something i thought i love this i love this tour i love the experience of it i love the creativity of it i love
so much about this i just wanna quit the podcast i wanna quit everything i just want to tour and i never would have had that realization if i hadn't committed to going bigger and if i hadn't just jumped on that roller coaster and let it rip i mean the truth is how many times have you had that moment where you're like i can't do this so i'm not even gonna bother like like i don't even know if i could make it through that so i'm not gonna put my toe in the water i mean if you stop there i can't do this imagine if i had stopped on friday morning like i'm a really creative person i could come up with a reason i had to cancel the tour i lost my voice like some reason to i can't do this i'm stopping this but if you stop where you think the edges are you actually never get to your saturday night you never stretch yourself beyond where you are right
now at some point you have to post the video you have to sing the song you have to just give the presentation at work i could have run for the hills but i was in the roller coaster with the bars locked down because we had sold out audiences every night and so this conversation right now is an invitation from your friend mel imagine if you did it bigger and you don't even have to know what that means i mean i certainly didn't clearly based on the story that i'm telling you maybe you have always wanted to take a dance class but you're a terrible dancer and even though there's a studio just 10 minutes from your house you've never signed up doing it bigger means bigger than your fears go sign up in fact we were just talking about this before the show the producer on our team yuna said oh my god i've always wanted to be a better dancer there's this dance studio i wanna go to and the reason she has not gone oh my god i would look
so bad well that's what we all do can't you go bigger in life aren't you willing to stretch yourself enough to do it bad just so that you do it i mean maybe you've been meaning to ask your boss for a raise but it's been over a year and you still haven't done it maybe you've always wanted to be a musician and you spend hours and hours and hours watching everybody else sing and write and put their stuff on social media you know that all you gotta do is start posting covers of you singing on instagram and tiktok but every time you film a video oh you don't feel big you feel small what if you did it bigger what if you allowed yourself to be big and you just posted it when you go bigger it's just like sitting that seat in the roller coaster and locking yourself in what is it gonna feel like say it a little louder what's it gonna feel like when you go bigger even when you're an idiot like me and you don't even know what you're agreeing to i'll tell you what it's gonna feel like it's gonna be uncomfortable you're gonna feel nervous you're gonna be afraid once you're kinda in you're gonna be like why the hell did i agree to do this thing and here's what i want you to know you have to keep going because you gotta get to your saturday night you gotta do it at least 3 times in order for you to get through that like i can't do this i don't like this this is new i don't like stretching myself oh my god what are people thinking until you get to the point where you're like oh wait a minute this is pretty cool i kinda get this
now and so you're gonna get to your saturday night you're going bigger you're showing up that's amazing so let's get to lesson number 2 you ready you gotta bring the fun i mean come on now aren't you sick and tired of the world being serious aren't you tired of everything being so heavy and that's not to say there aren't big issues in the world or serious things going on in your life but lesson number 2 that i learned by going big and doing let them the tour something that stretched me beyond my wildest imagination you have to bring the fun if you're scared bring the fun if you're out of your comfort zone bring the fun if stuff is getting stiff and serious and the stakes feel high boom bring the fun and here's why this is
so important it is this counteractive anecdote or antidote or whatever the hell the word is to moments when you're afraid because of course you're gonna be afraid of course you're gonna be nervous i was nervous i mean i already told you i wanted to cancel my own show but there is this moment where i had to remind myself you know mel you're starting to take yourself a little too seriously you know you're starting to put too much pressure on yourself mel you're not in an emergency room performing heart surgery on somebody that's about to die how about you take this a little less seriously how about we dial down the stress what if you bring the fun what if you were to loosen up and lean into this i mean think about a roller coaster you got a choice you can grip your butt cheeks together and hold it all in and scream in terror and or you can let loose a little bit and have some fun because you know what you're already in it i mean you and i take ourselves
so seriously and that's especially true if you're nervous so what if you not only did it bigger and you did something you've never done or you did it in a different way but what if you brought the fun and so focusing on the fun what was interesting is night 1 i was like stiff like i had like rigor mortis on stage i was walking around like frankenstein super stiff because i was trying to remember my marks and my lines and so was my daughter and the whole goal of having fun it just helped me loosen up it helped me bring the fun and when i started to loosen up it changed the experience and it changed the feeling that i had and here's what i discovered i freaking love physical comedy by night 2 instead of like saying the lines and talking really stiff and then moving to the smart i'm crawling across the stage i'm crawling all over the table i'm cracking jokes i'm swaddling my arms i'm letting it loose because the more fun you're having the more fun everybody has around you
so let me ask you you know that big presentation or that dance class or that open house you're gonna hold as a real estate agent or that stuff you're gonna do on social media or that person that you admire that you really want to collaborate with in business or music how could you bring the fun and 1 of the reasons why it's so important to bring the fun is because it's contagious it's really contagious 1 of the coolest things that happened aside from meeting you and so many fellow listeners you know from the podcast and flown in from all over the world is working with a crew that does these massive stadium tours with all these massive successful crazy amazing musicians right what was
so cool is they're like top top top professionals because they wanna do a good job they value what they're doing but by the time the tour was over it was so rewarding to hear them say to us this was my favorite tour that i've ever done because it was so much fun and you guys are about family and there's like so much growth and stretching that happened and because you had so much fun the fun took the tension away and what happens in an environment where you're having fun people don't slack off you know what they do it's the opposite people show up with even more excellence people show up and care more and
so how can you add fun in your life how can you bring more fun to work i mean if you're trying a a new yoga class and you fall over because you're trying to do like some move for the first time laugh it's funny like why do you have to be perfect if you're with your coworkers on a high stress project you're already playing big how about you pause and start high fiving everybody and cracking jokes and lightening the mood i mean even for me saying well we're not doing brain surgery here so let's lighten up and let's have a little bit more fun with this if you're trying to get into running how about you create the best playlist ever like ever not the old 1 you've listened to for 3 years you know the 1 i'm talking about but you just like create something that's like wow and you really have fun with it and if you do take the dance class bring a friend
so you can look silly together because neither of you know the steps let's say you wanna start competing you wanna start racing or jujitsu or anything how about you like act like 1 of those athletes pick a theme song put it on in your headphones bounce around like get yourself in the mood have a little bit more fun because when you loosen up you actually perform better and bringing the fun changed everything because bringing the fun helped me lower the stakes and the self criticism bringing the fun helped me loosen up and lean in to the ride that i was on and bringing the fun is gonna shake things up in your life in your work and the way that you're doing things too alright
so we've already covered 2 lessons from the tour and i'm just getting started i haven't told you the craziest stories yet and we got 4 more amazing lessons to go do not go anywhere i wanna take a quick moment so we can have our amazing sponsors share a few words and i'll be waiting for you after this short break to jump into the remaining 4 lessons and more from behind the scenes from let them the tour stay with me welcome back it's your buddy mel robbins i am
so thrilled that you're here with me today thank you also for sharing this with people that you care about because today i am giving you a big old kick in the pants it is time to go bigger in life to have more fun i am sharing 6 lessons that i learned kinda the hard way honestly doing let them the tour this was a huge stretch experience for me and i am so excited to share the things that i learned and this next lesson is something that is a pro tip i have been using this lesson for my whole life honestly and i was reminded of it with this tour and
so i wanna share it with you because it's such powerful powerful powerful mindset hack whenever you're doing anything in life i want you to always start with the end what does that mean it means before you begin i want you to imagine how the thing ends it's a super powerful hack that really sets you up to succeed and it gives you a road map for how to show up for things and let me unpack this so people have been asking me to go on tour for a long time but the fact is i just haven't had time to be on the road between launching this podcast and writing the let them theory book and all the other stuff that we do in our business i'm like i i don't i don't have 6 weeks to just go on tour but i really knew i wanted to and
so when we finally said okay now's the time we're gonna go on tour we're gonna go to these cities we're gonna try this as just like this little contained experiment because they didn't know how it was gonna go and then of course marcus dared me to go bigger and i'm like okay we'll do a show and next thing you know we're basically doing broadway in a rock and roll concert and that was a story that i already just told you but here's 1 thing is that i was very clear from the moment i said yes about what i wanted it to feel like in the end and i want you to stop and think about this because this is a really important lesson always start with the end
so what does that mean so here's how you set this up when the tour was over and all the dust had settled and the crew had gone back home and i was back in vermont and we were back doing the podcast and just back to normal life what did i want to have had happened right what did we accomplish and it might surprise you to hear what i didn't say i didn't say oh when the tour is over i wanna have sold out everything i wanna do make a ton of money i wanted to make the book even more popular i wanted to go viral in terms of the videos that people that that that wasn't at all what i saw when this thing was over here's what i said i wanted to have happen when this was all over because when you start with the end you start to recognize what actually matters to you
so number 1 i said well by the time the tour is over i want to be proud of the fact that we created this just magical experience from the moment people walked in the front doors surprise and delight like just unexpected what happens but i really wanted people to enjoy this to be moved by it and inspired to laugh to walk out of there and go that was unbelievable and so it was really about that the experience left people surprise gobs back moved that was number 1 number 2 the starting with the end the second thing that i wanted to do is i wanted the show to get better every single time we did it and the third thing is i wanted to just have a ton of fun doing it and that meant not just me i wanted the whole crew who we had never worked with i wanted the team i wanted our audience i wanted the teams that were at all the venues that we were rolling into i just wanted it to be fun and the reason why this lesson start with the end is
so important is because it tells you what you're actually measuring for success and just think about how different somebody operates if they say oh i wanna sell everything out that's what you're gonna measure that was not on my radar at all it's really really important to see the power in this because it it informs you how to show up and so i said all this stuff and even though you're gonna start with the end and say i wanna have a lot of fun i want the show to get better i i wanna like have the audience be surprised and delighted all this stuff right that doesn't mean that's how it's gonna feel that just gives you the guardrails to get yourself back on track
so if you go back to that story remember i wanted to quit the show i call chris i'm telling him i just wanna cancel everything i hate this thing and he says get your butt back over to that theater and i get to the theater and i call a meeting what do i do i go to the lesson number 3 i think about the end if i think about the end how is this gonna turn out oh well the show's gotta get better every night we gotta have a lot of fun we gotta make sure the audience literally is enjoying themselves that became the guidelines for friday morning how do we have more fun i just wanna get this better guys how do we make the show better and
so i asked everybody for feedback and then we started cutting lines and trimming the show and we got coaching about being more physical and that made it better this tool start with the end is something i have used in life in business absolutely everything and i'm gonna give you a few examples because this thing is such an amazing mindset hack so let's say you're going into a business meeting or you're going into an interview right start with the end in mind what does that mean here's what that means when the interview's over or the business presentation is done and you have left the room what do you want people to be saying about you when it's over based on how you answer that question you know exactly how to act you know what energy to bring you know how you should prepare you know how you should conduct yourself because you've started with the end and that end vision gives you a guideline for what to actually have your eye on that matters
so that you can create that you know let's say you are signing up for that dance class if you have the end in mind and you've left your first dance how do you want that to feel you know you're clearly not gonna feel like a prima ballerina in your first class but you might feel like that was fun i'm proud of myself now you know how to show up this is all about what you're measuring in life too many people what are they measuring oh they're measuring all the crap right oh how much money do we make how many followers strike it how viral did this thing go but there's a deeper measurement of success for the thing that you want to do bigger and maybe the measurement of success is i'm just proud of the fact that i did it that i survived it that i got on that roller coaster i locked in i screamed for the first half and then i actually let my hands up and allowed myself to enjoy it or maybe you're proud of yourself because going bigger and having fun means that you posted about your business or your art or your music 30 days in a row and you didn't look at followers and you didn't look at comments and you didn't look at views you looked at the fact that you did it and that brings me to lesson number 4 things will go wrong and you will be fine see nobody knows how it's supposed to go and it's a skill in life to learn that when things roll in a different direction you can just kinda roll with them and
so many things go wrong when you're doing live theater i mean i've never had the number of things go wrong standing on a stage giving a presentation i mean i've been in front of 27,000 people giving a speech nothing went wrong holy cow it was like the wheels came off every night it was something new i mean on the third night of the show this is saturday night wang theatre boston i am on lock i am loving this show we have worked out the kinks we are having fun we are loose we know our marks we've done the show
so we know what we're doing we're doing physical comedy it's hysterical oh my gosh i started to cough on stage and i don't just mean cough a couple times i mean i had this weird thing happen where it was like i breathed in i don't know if that's the right word but i like sucked in some air and it was like it was almost like there was a cotton ball in the air that went right in my mouth and hit me on the throat and so i had this like i had the craziest coughing fit i've ever had in my entire life in front of 3,500 people and i'm not kidding it went on for about 10 minutes straight at 1 point i was coughing
so hard that my eyes were watering i'm like oh now you know the show's alive and i start waving at sawyer who's on stage with me as i'm trying to chug water and she's like mom are you o are you okay like i think she thought she was gonna have to do the heimlich maneuver only i hadn't been eating anything i even walked off the stage at 1 point and just kinda waved at sawyer to just riff while she was talking to the crowd meanwhile everybody's running around trying to make tea throwing lozenges at me i've got like 16 throat cough things in my mouth as i'm trying to like loosen up the the the the throat
so i can get some some some words out it was hysterical and once that went wrong oh my god the reason why the saturday night show was so fantastic is the wheels were off and once i got my voice back once you survive a coughing attack holy cow you show up and swing for the fences because once that happened oh my god well we might as well just take this thing completely off the rails and that was so fun so how does this apply to you so let's say you do go to a new gym which i'm just gonna say if you haven't been to a gym for a long time it takes a lot of courage to walk into a brand new gym you don't know anybody you've maybe never lifted weights but you have like i'm lifting weights and after the first rounds of reps you drop the barbell it makes a huge sound everybody spends and looks at you okay something went wrong take a deep breath laugh it off shrug your shoulders you just made it right or you go to a yoga class and you're like in 1 of those inversions and then you fart it is the most embarrassing thing do you know my husband's a yoga instructor he says it happens a dozen times a class just laugh make a joke about what you had for dinner say nothing shrug your shoulders namaste you can make it right or maybe you're giving a big presentation at work and the slides don't load oh my gosh i've had that happen things are going wrong you can make it right all you do to make it right is go i cannot believe this is happening can you guys give me just a couple minutes while i try to sort this thing out and that's how you make it right or you just close the laptop and you say well this is not going according to plan
so here's what we're gonna do instead of talking to you for 30 minutes i'm gonna share the main bullet points for 10 minutes and then i'm gonna take questions you just made it right there you go you sign up for an open mic and you totally bomb alright things went wrong how do you make it right you sign up and you do it again that's it that's it you try a new bold outfit and you instantly felt self conscious well first of all you now know that when you go bold you're gonna feel like it's terrible and so you're doing it right okay it may feel wrong but you're actually doing it right and i think that's the twist on this when it feels wrong you're actually doing it right because that's what it feels like see here's the thing about life those nerves don't go away no they don't that's part of the ride the fear is going to keep showing up and 1 of the things that i haven't truly put you at the scene at is how much fear i'm talking like paralyzed panic stricken fear my daughter and the coauthor of the let them theory sawyer robbins had i mean i dragged her kicking and screaming onto the let them tour onto that stage with me and for this
next part of our conversation i am going to bring her onto the podcast with me and she's going to talk about the fifth lesson which is how you flip your mindset about fear because even though i had been doing a show for years and i was terrified and all that stuff i'd been spending a decade on stages sawyer on the other hand the last time she was on stage was in fifth grade when she was the crow in the wizard of us and
so my level of fear was a little different than her level of fear and you're going to hear it straight from her not only about how to go big when you're that afraid you've never done it before but what is it like to have your worst fears playing out in front of 3,500 people live on stage well that's the story you're gonna hear and the lessons we're gonna unpack when we come back after this short word from our sponsors so stay with me welcome back it's your buddy mel and today i'm bringing you backstage on let them the tour and i'm packing the 6 lessons it taught me and
now it's teaching you about the importance of stretching yourself and thinking bigger and having fun and just the importance of pushing yourself to do things that feel wrong because it's the right thing to do and you know i wanted sawyer to have you come on for this part of the conversation because 1 of the lessons from doing this tour together is something that you said which is fear means you're doing something that matters and i'd love to have you just explain what that means i think the biggest thing for me on tour is i am not great on stage and i had
so much fear going into this to give you some context my last public speaking experience was a 15 person class in college where i had to coach myself in my dorm every single time before i had a speech and would be profusely sweating and freaking out and calling my therapist and just so so nervous public speaking is not my forte and so when i came onto this tour and we decided i was gonna be on stage i was
so nervous not only because i felt like i didn't have experience but mostly because i really really wanted to do well and i cared so much about this this is our book i wanted everyone to love it just as much as us and i felt like the weakling and so i was petrified and because it really really mattered to me
i wanna unpack this but before we do this connection between fear and things mattering to you so fear and caring about something mhmm why did you say yes because i can't even remember how i roped you in i can't to doing you can what how did okay what happened so where were we put me at the scene
we were up here in the vermont studio
and above the garage garage very sexy
and i had been overseeing this tour for about 3 months and owning the logistics whole logistics and project of it and when we started talking about who was gonna be up on stage mom you turned to me and you said sawyer i would love for you to come out on stage for like 5 minutes and so i can introduce you as the coauthor and of course i said yeah absolutely i'd love to do that like that would be such an honor and
so i agreed
k
then about a month later we actually sit down and we start working out everything about this tour and you said i can't do this all alone and so so slowly but surely as we were planning mel kept being like sawyer you're gonna come in here and then you're also gonna come in here and and then you're gonna come in here too and then you're gonna go off stage but come right back and lo and behold i was on stage for 50 minutes of the entire show you're half the show i'm half the show yeah
so it was very incremental and i knew that she was nervous and so i wanted to be supportive and i also this was my project i wanted to be amazing and so i said yes to everything and unsure of actually how much it was gonna take
now i've already talked about how i had no clue what i was saying yes to mhmm and that i blame marcus for making me go bigger and you're now basically pointing the finger at me for making you go bigger which is an important thing in life because the 1 of the missions of sharing these lessons is to inspire you as you're watching this on youtube or you're listening or you're sharing this with somebody in your life who needs to take more risks and stretch themselves our mission is to have you go bigger mhmm and when we walked in to the wang theatre in boston for our first rehearsal and you saw the scale of what we had taken on mhmm what did you feel i completely panicked and i remember going through rehearsals and me screwing up my lines and just getting
so tripped up the tears started welling in my eyes and just feeling in complete disbelief that i was about to go out on stage and perform this
yeah the roller coasters left the station and you're now locked on and on it
yeah and i think it didn't help that you also looked at me wide eyed and nervous like what are we doing here
yes you say fear means you're doing something that matters fear means that you care mhmm what does that mean and why is that a lesson that you wanna share
i think it was very obvious for me that i was so nervous about this entire tour about doing well about showing up about overperforming getting better and i also had my sister kendall to compare to who hopped on last minute and for those of you who are not in the audience she sings a beautiful song on stage but she was not nervous at all
not at all not at all and she's a singer songwriter
she's a singer songwriter and she has experience on stage but she it was so interesting to be getting ready with her beforehand i'm freaking out i really want to do well because this matters so much to me and i love what we're talking about and i have a stake in this whereas she would just roll up to rehearsal like in her sweatpants sweat like sweatshirt strum a few chords and be like alright i'm ready to go let's do this and i think that because the let them theory she didn't write the book and it doesn't mean as much to her in her own personal life she was not she didn't care she didn't really care she literally would say this is your tour it's not mine i appreciate the opportunity but i don't really care and
so you what you're pointing to is that if you don't actually care you're not afraid
mhmm
if you don't care you're not nervous that there is this very important connection between the things that you're nervous to do and the things that you're afraid of and the fact that you deeply deeply care mhmm and what's interesting about this lesson is that you're right like kendall is a pro she has a tremendous amount of experience on stage but she felt like okay i just have this part to play and i can nail this part and i can sing the song that i wrote and have this moment on stage with you guys talking about comparison but that's it it's not my show i don't have to worry about it that's how i felt when i would give a speech i know my role i don't really care how the rest of the event goes i don't have to even think about it but what's interesting is she's performing at a music festival outside of chicago this summer and she's playing you know on like they have all these stages side stage play and it's the audience that she was in front of every single night is way bigger than even who will probably be standing in front of her at this festival and she's afraid and nervous and because she cares mhmm and
so how do you use this lesson in order to push yourself to do things outside your comfort zone because if you're scared to give a presentation it's because you care how you do at work if you're nervous to post your music it's because the music means something to you and you care about what people think if you're afraid to ask somebody out it's probably because you actually like them so how can you use this lesson to flip the like the feelings of your because they're not gonna go away i mean were you scared before every performance oh every single 1 i was running to the bathroom and hyperventilating and going backstage putting on my lip gloss 15 times because i thought it came off like i was i was petrified every single time that never never left and
so how does knowing that you care and that's why you're nervous help you manage the fear that's always gonna be there because i was afraid too because basically if you're about to walk on stage you have no idea how it's gonna go it's a live audience mhmm it's theater you haven't done this tonight in front of this audience so how could you know how it's gonna go you just know your part and that you can rely on yourself to do it but how do you use this lesson soy to feel that fear put your lipstick on 55,000 times jump up and down backstage and then walk out on that stage and do the thing you rehearsed how do you do that i think that i really had to keep telling myself that i was meant to be there even though my fear and my anxiety and my imposter syndrome kept convincing myself that i'm not meant to be on stage i'm not supposed to be here this is my mom's show she's the performer i am the side body i should be the i'm she is in the spotlight i am in the limelight and that i kept trying to push through because i knew that the fear was good and i knew that this was what i was meant to do you know 1 thing that's interesting about you saying this thing like oh i'm not supposed to be here i'm not supposed to be here that's not true because you are there like that's how you know that you're supposed to be in the room that you're in because you're in it mhmm like be in the room and be afraid and understand that you're only afraid because you care about it and you had this other lesson though because i think that the other important lesson is what you ended up doing with this notion of thinking that you can't do something or you're not supposed to do something and
so if 1 of the lessons is oh you're always gonna be afraid when you care about something
mhmm
that's just part of the way that life rolls so expect it and see it not as a sign that you're gonna screw up but see all that clenching and the nerves and the panicking as a sign that you just care about how it goes mhmm and you had this other lesson you actually share this on stage during the tour and that lesson and this is the sixth lesson from let them the tour what is that lesson
that lesson that i share on stage and thoroughly believe is do it because you think you can't and what i mean by that is there is in my life there has been no better feeling than telling myself i'm going to do something no matter how small it is it could be getting out of bed it could be going to a workout class or it could be taking a trip halfway across the world but picking something and telling yourself you're gonna do it and actually doing it and the feeling that you get the proudness that you feel the confidence you i swear to god it's better than love and my boyfriend does not like that line no he he is well it's self love that's just how you love yourself mhmm you love yourself by showing yourself that you're worthy of attempting the things that you want to do in life and you know that's a really important thing to understand you will become the kind of person who can handle scary things by handling it mhmm you become the kind of person that takes risks by taking risks like i think a lot about the person that i was before we did this tour together yeah and i always thought that i was somebody and i am somebody who swings for the fences i jump in with both feet i'm willing to try new things like that is 1 of my secrets that i'm like okay i'll i'll say yes and then i'll figure it out mhmm and that's what i mean by what if you went bigger what if you just jumped into the thing even though you don't know how to do it and you trusted that you could figure it out do it because you think you can't and can't is often i think code for well i've never tried it yes for sure for sure i think that the what in my life the first time i ever felt this mhmm was when right after graduation in college i was the most unhealthy i'd ever been i felt
so horrible about myself i knew i wanna do something and i chose to do 75 hard
which explain what that is for somebody not the details but what exactly is 75 hard
75 hard is essentially a 75 day challenge where you push your mental and physical toughness through 5 different tasks that you need to do every single day including diet exercise no drinking etcetera
and the whole put this into context i've never been able to complete this because if you miss 1 day you have to go back to the beginning
exactly and i finished successfully the 75 days and i have never ever ever felt so good about myself and it wasn't because i lost weight or felt more healthy or got the results that i wanted it was solely because i completed something i never thought i could do and then i think throughout my life i've done several other things this tour being a huge 1 where you kept roping me into it more and more and instead of saying no i knew i really did think i couldn't do it but i chose to say yes because i truly thought i can't and coming out of this tour i want like add it to the list i truly feel
so proud of myself
well i'm proud of you too and i want you to take this lesson and this is a lesson that everybody in your life also needs and the lesson is if you think you can't that's the reason to do it like if you think you can't get the job that's the reason to apply for it if you think you can't post your art on social media that's exactly why you should be putting it on social media if you think you couldn't possibly ever perform live you'd die if you had to sing a song on stage that's exactly why you should do it that's why you should start going to the cooking class because you think you can't ever be a cook that can cook great meals for your family if you think you can't move to your dream location and the city you've always wanted to live in that's exactly why you should do it like when you say no to somebody and you never thought you could say no that's how you say yes to the person that you want to be and
so i love this advice because it's so simple and it's and it's kind of obvious too like if you just did the things you think you couldn't do you'd be the person that you've always wanted to be and so whatever it is you think you can't run the race you think you can't go on that solo trip you think you can't fall in love again after heartbreak you think you can't backpack alone you're wrong and the reason why you need to do it is because you don't think you can you need to prove yourself wrong nothing changes your life faster than doing something that you always told yourself that you couldn't even if you just try you're still proving the voice wrong i'm telling you nothing rewires your identity faster nothing changes how you see yourself faster nothing quiets that annoying inner critic faster this is i i i said that the experience of doing this with you and kendall because of the amount of stuff that went sideways and the amount of emotions everybody had and the amount of like breakdowns everybody had and the amount of fear backstage about what was happening that created this hypergrowth this is like the downslope on the roller coaster if you wanna feel more confident go out and prove it mhmm do something that you are scared to do ask somebody out in person instead of hiding on the apps post the videos of you singing pitch your ideas at work or to like somebody that fund is an angel investor pull up at the gym even though you haven't seen the inside of a gym in a decade and act like you belong or even better walk up to the front desk and say i have no idea what to do is there somebody that works here that would be willing to show me a simple thing that i could do for 30 minutes do it because you think you can't that's the fastest way to shut up self doubt is do the opposite of what it's telling you to do and here's how i know this is true and you know this is true too i'm not telling you something you don't know you just don't wanna do it mhmm the version of me that is the version post let them the tour that version of mel did not exist before this tour period i was built day after day night after night through every awkward moment through every laugh through every deep breath through everything that failed through the coughing fits through the fights mother and daughter through the ad like all of it i didn't become this version of myself by thinking about it i became this version by doing something new and stretching myself and did i mess of course i messed up a lot and you're going to too you might get rejected you might fall on your face you will feel uncomfortable but you're gonna survive it and more importantly you're gonna grow from it and isn't that what you want do
you want the same old same old for the rest of your life wouldn't that be boring well prove it because the price of admission to have the kind of life that you want and to have pride in yourself is doing the thing you think you can't do doing something that scares you and then showing up again and then showing up again until you get to your saturday night that's how you become the kind of person who can handle difficult things by handling difficult things that's how you close the gap between who you are
now and who you wanna be you gotta do the things the version of you would do so let me ask you what's the thing you think you can't do yeah the thing that makes your stomach flip or your butt i don't wanna do that that's how it always feels for me oh i don't that thing that you've wanted for a long time boy have you spent a lot of energy talking yourself out of it oh i couldn't start a podcast everybody has a podcast oh i can't go into real estate everybody's in real oh i can't move to that city my friend lives in that city oh i'll never find love because that person found love oh i'm too old i'm too late i'm too this i'm too that what is it that you're talking yourself out of i know you know what it is i'm not even gonna give you a list maybe it's big or maybe it's something tiny you just are gonna start saying no you're gonna stop making everyone else happy and you're gonna start doing the things that make you happy whatever it is i need you to hear your friend mel you're never going to feel ready and the reason why is because you've spent decades probably telling yourself i can't do that i'm not that kind of person you're not gonna feel prepared you're not gonna feel smart enough talented enough you're not gonna feel ready definitely not the first time you do it definitely not before you take the leap that's not what makes you ready what makes you ready is actually just taking the leap you will never believe it before you do it that's the huge thing everybody gets wrong about life you have to do the thing first then you believe that you can do it and you know 1 more thing i wanted to say i know there are
so many of you who wanted to be at let them the tour but you couldn't get a ticket whether it was sold out or it wasn't coming to your city or life just got in the way i really hope that some of the things that we shared today some of the things that we particularly put into the youtube version of this episode brought the tour to life that it reminded you that you can do things bigger than you've ever done before that your fear is just part of what's gonna happen and it only means that you care and that you are capable of
so much more than you think so stop sitting around waiting to feel ready and just do it because you think you can't and then you're going to actually realize you've been ready the whole time you've just been talking yourself out of it and i also wanna share some good news we are not done with let them the tour we are already planning 2026 we are going to be coming to cities around the world i wanna hear from you where should we go next just put it in the comments on spotify on youtube wherever it is that you are listening or watching right
now what city what country do you want us to do let them the tour in next and if you wanna be sure to get a ticket because my god the entire thing sold out in like 20 seconds i had no idea that we were all so wanting to get together in person and have something that you could do that would be inspiring and hilarious and fun and uplifting and be with like minded people so if you wanna make sure that you get a ticket in round 2 of let them the tour just go to melrobbins.com and please get on the newsletter because we're gonna try to protect everybody from all the bots and the resellers by creating a registration process for a code and doing ticket sales completely differently this time and i cannot wait to see you in person when we do it again and in case no 1 else tells you today i wanted to be sure to tell you that i love you and i believe in you and i believe in your ability to do the things that you can't i believe in your ability to create a better life i hope the 6 lessons and all the stories that we told
now makes you realize that you gotta do the things you think you can't because that's the only way you believe in your ability to do them in the first place alrighty i will see you in the very next episode in fact i'm gonna be waiting to welcome you in the moment you hit play i'll see you there are you ready alright here we go something like that are we good we're gonna have the corresponding garage door shut oh that whey protein people she's got a lot of fiber in that if you share it with people that you care about it is an invitation oh my lord did you like the roller coaster thing i liked it yeah i thought it really clench it up again i think it's kinda fun and we still don't know our show well i should say sawyer knew the show because sawyer had memorized her lines back on the stage right on the set yes yeah yeah yeah isn't that incredible yeah mic drop okay great we're good to cut
oh and 1 more thing and no this is not a blooper this is the legal language you know what the lawyers write and what i need to read to you this podcast is presented solely for educational and entertainment purposes i'm just your friend i am not a licensed therapist and this podcast is not intended as a substitute for the advice of a physician professional coach psychotherapist or other qualified professional got it good i'll see you in the
next episode stitcher